---
title: "【英语随笔】How to Make Time for Language Learning with a Full-Time Job"
subtitle: ""
date: 2022-11-18T02:21:26+08:00
description: ""
keywords: ""
tags: ["英语随笔"]
categories: ["English"]
---

{{< admonition quote >}}
以下内容来源于: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_sqxYGubJTc
{{< /admonition >}}
#### 🍒 原文内容
If you have big dreams {{<blank-text hide="for">}} learning a new language but have {{<blank-text hide="very limited">}} time for studying and often find {{<blank-text hide="that">}} your job or busy schedule {{<blank-text hide="gets in the way of">}} achieving `those` dreams then this is the video for you.  

Learning a new language {{<blank-text hide="takes constant">}} time and effort and `it can be` really easy to feel overwhelmed or like `there's` no time to {{<blank-text hide="squeeze">}} it {{<blank-text hide="in">}}.

Today I'm going to talk about how I can most effectly self-study a new language around `a busy` lifestyle. If `you're` new here my name is lzzy and I'm a Cambridge graduate and a doctor working in London and on the side I learn Mandarin Chinese in any freee time I can get.

Making space for language learning `is something that` I have spend a lot of time and energy figuring out how to do.

For more than a year I'v been struggling in studying Mandarin Chinese while also being a full-time medical student {{<blank-text hide="at">}} Cambridge and now a doctor working full-time in London.

Whether you're working/stduying or busy with anything else at all, in this video I'll {{<blank-text hide="break down">}} the main steps `that` I use `in order to` schedule my language learning to continue to make progress with my Mandarin Chinese.

In this video we talk about understanding your learner {{<blank-text hide="profile">}},finding {{<blank-text hide="magnifying">}} and protecting any time you have for stduying a language {{<blank-text hide="around">}} your busy schedule, and finally we'll talk about study efficiency and how we can {{<blank-text hide="maximize">}} this as `we're` {{<blank-text hide="short on">}} time already so `we've` really `got to` make the most of any minutes that we can get.

The first step is to understand your personal learner profile. So this essentially means (that) {{<blank-text hide="understandding">}} how you learn best. We're all defferent `and` we all learn in defferent ways. The best way to figure this out is by trying a few different learning `styles` out and seeing what feels best `to` you. This ties is very {{<blank-text hide="in closely with">}} energy management.

Monitoring when you feel the most energy in a day and what `kinds of` study sessions suit you. So here I would think about whether you're morning person or {{<blank-text hide="more of">}} a night owl, also think about the duration of study sessions that were best to you.

For me generally I prefer to study `in` shorter {{<blank-text hide="bursts">}} of half an hour to maybe an hour. But some people like to sit down for maybe a few hours `of` really deep focus.

Also {{<blank-text hide="bear in mind">}} what helps give you energy and give you motivation to actully study a language. A lot of `this is` about discipline rather than motivation, but at the end of the day is way more enjoyable if `we're` having fun with `our` learning journey. 

So figuring out learning strategies that you actually enjoy and suit you is going to make everything so much smoother. This {{<blank-text hide="includes">}} having some fun options as part of your language learning {{<blank-text hide="portfolio">}}. So let's say you get home from work and `your're` feeling absolutely {{<blank-text hide="knackered">}} `instead of` just completely canceling your study session `that you'd` scheduled. You can take a `slightly` more Middle Ground approach understand and recognize `that` `you're` feeling tired but still chose to do something that is going to help your language learning {{<blank-text hide="overall">}},such as watching a movie `in` your target language.

The second thing is to honestly evaluate your schedule and then {{<blank-text hide="block out">}} time for your studying. This means looking for any time gaps in your schedule and being a very {{<blank-text hide="realistic">}} about what you can actually achieve. I personally use Goole calendar for scheduling pretty much erverything in my life. So whatever kind of calendar scheduling you use. Scheduling your language learning time ahead of time and make sure you protect it. It's easy to just cancle your language learning slot if you want to meet a friend `for` coffee or `you're` just feeling a little bit tire. But remember that this is {{<blank-text hide="precious">}} time that you want to dedicate to your language goals or dreams. Don't let yourself down.

I do this on a week by week basis, so every single Sunday I will sit down with my calendar and block out a few hours of language learning throughout the week.

This is also a really good time to plan slots for any `online` tutoring such as on italki or if you have a language buddy scheduling sessions with them give you fixed slots where `you're` {{<blank-text hide="held accountable to">}} actually {{<blank-text hide="showing up">}} for your language learning.

For me, if I do I have a language learning session book but then I do have a `change of` plan `and` I `want to` meet a friend. I will `make a` point of moving that slots (to) somewhere else in my calendar ranther than just `canceling` `it` {{<blank-text hide="outright">}}.

If possible at all I want to try to make sure that I get five hours of language learning time a week. Unfortunately, it wasn't going to be easy,but it is going to be worth it. I promise you.

The third step is looking for anywhere `that` you can have {{<blank-text hide="at stack">}}, so can you {{<blank-text hide="multitask">}} while doing something ese you should have to to, and also you're learning a language a at the same time.

For example I {{<blank-text hide="commute to">}} the hospital every day which takes 1 hour each way. In this time I like to do my Chinese Anki flashcards or listen to a Chinese podcast. Another example of this is in morning routine, whenever I do my morning routine and brush my teeth do my morning skincare, I just turn on a Chinese podcast in the background an listen to that. That means essentially if done my morning routine and if I done my commute then I {{<blank-text hide="stacked">}} the habit of learning Chinese on top of those existing habits that I already have. This helps {{<blank-text hide="to make">}} the most of the any dead time that you have in a day where you can `actually` be multitasking and working on your language at the same time.

The fourth step is having a game plan, this means planing the actual content you're going to study `ahead of` time for maxinmum efficiency when you actually to do `arrive at` your study session. So `you've` already {{<blank-text hide="decided">}} when you want to study and put that into your Google calendar. Now you just `need to` decided what to study. So if you decided all of these `ahead of` time when you plan out your week, let's say for me {{<blank-text hide="on">}} Sunday, it's all already planed out for you `so` you `can` just get straight into it and start excuting on your language learning plan.

This {{<blank-text hide="serves">}} two main functions, firstly it helps me just get started with my language learning session. There's less mental {{<blank-text hide="friction">}} with getting started, Because I already know what I suppose to be doing.

And secondly, I make sure that I'm focusing  my study `and` energy where `it's` really  needed the most when we make out weekly plan we can make sure that our stduy seesions have a good balance of working on different language skill, including speaking,reading,writing,listening. In order to create {{<blank-text hide="holistic">}} improvement in our language ability.

This brings `me` on to my last point which is study efficiency. Study efficiency is the {{<blank-text hide="Crux">}} of all this, because while studying `with` very limited time we want to make sure `that we're` maximizing the impact that time has using affective studying techniques. For language learning using `thhing` like {{<blank-text hide="space repetition">}} software such Anki is realy helpful,listening to podcasts,having {{<blank-text hide="speaking">}} sessions and also praticing reading with extentive reading and grade readers are all realy efficient way to learn, and also there serveral books I {{<blank-text hide="would recommend">}} on this including called fluent Forever by Gabriel weiner. I `hope` this video {{<blank-text hide="was">}} helpful or interesting in some way. If you enjoy this video you might this one over here {{<blank-text hide="where">}} I talk about my part-time language learning strategy for {{<blank-text hide="optimizing">}} efficiency wishing you all {{<blank-text hide="the very best with">}} your language learing Journey. If you have any other tips for learning a language around a {{<blank-text hide="busy  schedule">}} then please leave them in the comements below and help each other out. Otherwise, thank you so much for watching {{<blank-text hide="as">}} always take care of yourself and I will see you in the next video bye.

#### 🍅 简介
Today I'll {{<blank-text hide="go over">}} how to design a language learning strategy {{<blank-text hide="that">}} you can fit in {{<blank-text hide="alongside">}} a busy schedule. I {{<blank-text hide="work">}} full-time {{<blank-text hide="as">}} a doctor in London, and on the side I learn Mandrin in any free time I can get - I know how hard it can be to make time for goals {{<blank-text hide="beyond around ">}} full-time studies/work. I'll share my top tips {{<blank-text hide="on">}} how to {{<blank-text hide="juggle">}} the two and make the most of any spare time you have for language learning.


#### 🍄 评论
As a {{<blank-text hide="fellow">}} self {{<blank-text hide="study">}} Mandarin-chinese {{<blank-text hide="who">}} hv full time job, thank you for this kind of content! {{<blank-text hide="Boost">}} my confidence and faith {{<blank-text hide="in">}} learning. I also found some good pocasts {{<blank-text hide="thanks to">}} your video and {{<blank-text hide="have been">}} listening to them during my morning routine too.. 加油🙌