---
title: "【英语语法】00831现代英语语法-复习资料"
subtitle: ""
date: 2022-10-21T21:02:27+08:00
description: ""
keywords: ""
tags: ["英语语法"]
categories: ["English"]
---

{{< admonition quote >}}
本文内容来源于: https://max.book118.com/html/2021/1111/7133063160004040.shtm
{{< /admonition >}}

##### Present the grammatical units that form a hierarchical order. 请给出语法单位等级结构图
A text consists of one or more sentences.

sentences -> clauses

clause -> phrases

phrase -> words 

word -> morphemes

morpheme

##### Define morpheme, free morpheme, bound morpheme, morph and allomorph. 请给词素，自由词素，黏附词素，形素和词素变体下定义
*1. What is a morph? (minimal,abstract,morph)*
{{< details "展开查看详情" >}}
A **morpheme** is the **minmal** distinctive grammatical **unit**, **and** is the **lowest unit in grammatical hierarchy**. Morphemes are actually **abstract elements** of analysis. What occurs is an orthographic form in writing termed "**morph**" which **realizes** the **morpheme**.
{{< /details >}}
*2. what is free morpheme and bound morpheme? (own meaning/grammatical features,independence,word,derivative)*
{{< details "展开查看详情" >}}
1. A **free morpheme** is a **morpheme** that **has a meaning** of its own and can be **used independently**. A free morpheme can be a simple word or the root of a derivative.
2. A **bound morpheme** is a morpheme that **doesn't have a meaning** of its own and **can't be used independently**. Bound Morphemes only possess additional or grammatical meanings.

Generally speaking, **free morphemes** often **carry the meaning** and **bound morphemes** often **show grammatical features**.
{{< /details >}}
   
*3. What is morph and allomorph? (orthographic form, phonetic form; indistinctive variant)*
{{< details "展开查看详情" >}}
1. A **morph** is the **realization** of an **orthographic form** in writing or a **phonetic form** in speaking of a morpheme.
2. An **allomorph** is an **indistinctive variant** of a morpheme.
{{< /details >}}

##### Distinguish root,stem,and base as morphological terms.
*What is a root, a stem or a base? (**same but different**. remains,affixes,removed,not further analyzable; remains, inflectional affixes,removed; affixes can be added)*

{{< details "展开查看详情" >}}
**They** may refer to the **same** thing in **some cases**, **but** they are **different**.

A **root** is that part of a word that **remains** when all **affixes** have been **removed**.

A **root** is **not further analyzable** in morphological terms.

a **stem** has to do with inflectional features and is the part that **remains** when all **inflectional affixes** have been **removed**.

A **base** is any form to which **affixes** of any kind **can be added**.
{{< /details >}}

##### What are the semantic and functional differences between a prefix and a auffix?
*(do not change word class,add new meaning to base; don't be semantically changed.)*

##### Name at least five methods of word-formation and oite example for each
Affixation(词缀): dislike; attach a lesser morpheme or an affix to a major element.

Composition(复合):girl-friend; form by compounding more than one base

Conversion(转换): care(名词转化为动词); convert to a new word class without affix

Blending(拼缀): medicare; form from parts of two or more other words.

Backformation(逆生): babysitter came before babysit;form from verbs

Shortening(缩略): ad for advertisment; be shortened to a smaller word.

Acronym(首字母缩略): UN; put togehter the initial letter

##### Cite examples for the simple verb phrase, the complex verb phrase, the finite verb phrase and the non-finite ver phrase.
simple: without auxiliaries; I fully appreciate.

complex: wiht auxiliaries; can make is a complex verb.

finite: She likes dogs

non-finte: to do,doing

##### What are the 7 clause patterns?
SV, SVC,SVO, SVOO,SVOC,SVA and SVOA

s=subject, v=verb, c=complement, o=object,a=adverbial

##### Define the finite clauses and the non-finite clauses.
finite: have subjects and finite verbs as predicates.

non-finte: have subjects unsaid and verbs in non-finte forms

##### Define the simple sentence, the compound sentence(并列句) and the complex sentece.
simple: one clause

compound: more than one clause and the clauses are related to another by coordination

complex: by subordination

##### What are the four major types of sentences and what discourse functions are they normally associated with?
declaratives, interrogatives,imperatives and exclamatives.(陈述句、疑问句、祈使句和感叹句。)

##### How do we determine the scope of negation?
1. from nagative word to the end
2. intonation on an end-place
3. disjuncts and conjuncts are excluded in the scope
4. A prticular stress
5. All and every in different stresses

##### What are the verbs which transferred negation often occurs with What is their shared semantic feature.
think,believe, suppose, imagine, expect.

##### Apart from querying the truth of a statement, what other potential functions can a  YES-NO question perform.
may be regarded as speaker's invitaions or suggestions; like imperatives or exclamatives

##### What is the primary function of a WH-question?
what,when,why,whose,who,which and how: "information question"

##### What are the two types of alternative questions?
YES-NO question, WH-question

##### Explain the difference between a tag question with a final rising tone and one with a final falling tone.
rising: respone, verify

falling: confirm

##### How do we reinforce a command?
You get out -> YOU get out

##### What are the two major tyes of exclamations?
What, How

##### What is a noun phrase?
head word of a noun is a noun or pronoun; (premodification) head word (postmodification)

##### what is a proper(专有) noun
individual persons,places

##### what is a common noun
can be classified into

##### What is a mass noun?
cannot take plural forms

##### What is a collective(集合) noun
groups of people, animals or things.

##### What is a unit noun?
as "partitives", specify the quantities.

##### What is number?
important criteria

##### What are singular invariables
refer to proper noun and mass nouns.

##### What are plural invariables?
represent as invariable plural forms.

##### What are irregular plurals?
generalization is not applicable, learned as individual.

##### What are foreign plurals?
borrowed from other languages.

##### What are plural compounds?
consist of three ways of forms.

##### What are determiners(限定词)?
words are used in premodification of a noun phrase

##### What are the differences between determiners and adjectives
determiners precede adjectives; indentify,characteristics

##### What kinds of determiners are and are not mutually exclusive?
Predeterminers or central determiners are mutually exclusive.

Postdeterminers are not

##### Give two examples to illustrate the order of determiners.
Predeterminers + central determiner + post determiner

all the three other students.

##### What are generic reference and specific reference? (什么是泛指和特指)
generic: denotes class membership and refer to a class as a whole

specific: can be made either in a definte or an indefinte way.

##### Can the definite article(定冠词) be use for generic reference an the indefinite article for specific reference?
can. The panda is a rare animal.

##### Under what general circumstances do we prefer genitive to of-phrase and vice versa
1. people: Mary's
2. relation between the nouns is one of the definition, classification, etc.
3. denoting time: three years' book

##### What are some of the constraints that double genitive is subject to ?
1. always refers to persons,never to objects.
2. firs noun indefinite,second noun definte.
3. ...

##### 某些限定词用法
1. Many (后位限定词)other students.

##### Auxiliary verbs
not use alone, subdivision of verbs.

##### Simple verb phrase
consists of a head word only is refered to as a simple verb phrase

##### complex verb phrase
has predification is refered to as a complex verb phrase.

##### Classification of verbs
lexical verbs and auxiliaries

##### Tense 
present tense and past tense

##### The simple present
express the present time 

表示客观存在的; 现在习惯动作; 宣布说话,比赛解说,做演示时的说明;小说叙述,新闻标题,图片解说等; 表示不可更改的将来事情: Tomorrow is Saturday.

##### The simple past tense
associated with reference to the past time.

过去的状态/习惯;说话人委婉,客气的态度;表示与现在相反的假设;假设,用于从句中.

##### present progressive
某一时间内正在进行,具有持续性,暂时性和未完成性等含义.

说话和动作同时进行;长久习惯:He is getting up early these days; 刚刚过去的时间里发生的动作或者将来即将发生:Huang is giving a lecture on speech commutication this afternoon.

##### Progressive verbs
write,read,jump,hit; leave,die,change;feel,hurt,ache,tickle,itch.

##### Non-progressive verbs
be,have,own,equal,weight etc; see, smell,taste,etc;think,wonder,guess,etc.

##### the past progressive 
both past tense and the progressive aspect.

与一般过去时相比,更明确表示动作的未完成性,尤其是过渡词; 表示一种臆想和假设语气: I wish you were not driving so fast; 与hope,wonder等表示说话者的客气态度

##### the present perfect
denote a relation between the past and the present.

与一般过去时的区别:一般过去时表示的动作与现在时间无关

##### The present perfect progressive 
express the unfinished idea of the present perfect.


##### Voice 语态
view the action of a sentence in either of the two ways withou change.

##### Subjective mood(虚拟语气)
Sub junctive mood is used to cover all the verb forms that express assumpt ions  contrary to the given fact or not I ikely to be mater ial ized, and becomes a far  less important verbal category than was suggested.

虚拟语气被用来涵盖所有表达与给定事实相反或不可能被具体化的假设的动词形式，并成为一个远不如所建议的重要的动词范畴。

##### What are the two major types of the subjective mood
Be-subjective, were-subjective

##### What are the two major semantic categories of modal auxiliaries 
Predictive meaning and non-predictive meaning

##### What do modal auxiliaries in the predictive use usually express
concerned with the speaker's subjective assumption

##### can we assess the degree of probability concerning the existence of a past event.
No, we can't

##### What are the three major semantic components of can
posibility,ability and permission.

##### As expressions of possibility, are can and may interchangeable in all situation?
may: actually exists in real life; can: exists in theory.

##### When shall is used with a subject other than the first person, what does it usually indicate
denotes willingness or insistence.

##### should and ought to 
1. should is far more common than ought to

##### difference between should and must in non-predictive
should/ought to is "appropriate" int the situation; must is "compulsory" in the situation for ite to be.

##### the none-finite verbs
not marked for tense or for subject-verb concord.

##### the non-finite verb phrase or clause
main verb occurs in the non-finite form

##### the Cing participle
the present participle

##### types of Non-finite verbs
infintetive,-ing participle and -ed participle

##### syntactic(句法) features of adjectives 
attributive function(引语功能),predicative function(谓语功能),premodification by the intensifier very(加强词的前置修饰), and comparative/superlative forms(比较级/最高级形式).

##### attributive adjectives(定语形容词) and predicative adjectives(表语形容词)
modifies a noun and stands either before or after the noun in a noun phrase C premodifier and postmodifier.

an adjective which also modifies a noun by way of erving as a subject complement or an object complement.

##### adject used in the dynamic sense, its syntactic and semantic features?
denote subject measurement or suggest a temporary state in terms of their semantic features.

##### gradable and non-gradable adjectives
Most adjectives can take comparative forms,can be modified by intensifier

##### Adjectives may be used to denote inherent or non-inherent qualities.
an expensive car 和 an expensive restaurant.

##### restrictive and non-restrictive
restrictive helps identify the referent of the noun

non-restrictive merely provides some additional information

##### complex preposition and prepositional phrase
Complex- consists of more than one prepositions

prepositional phrase consists of a preposition and a noun.

There isn't a clear distinction between them.

##### Explain the static and dynamic uses of prepositions
with reference to spatial relations, preposition indicate the place where someone is,or the place where an action occurs.

##### prepositons indicate
Apart from spatial and temporal relations, prepositions can indicate: cause,purpose,manner,instrument,etc.

##### coordination and subordination
1. Coordination is introduced by coordinators, subordinaton by subordinators
2. conjoined units in coordination are same level
3. In subordination offer the background info.

##### central coordinators and other peripheral types of coordinators.
1. coordinators: and,or and but.
2. peripheral types coordinators: both...and,either...or

##### use to modify a non-nominal antecedent
"which" includes: clasuses, verb phrases and predicative adjectives as antecedent.
1. she cycled from london to Glasgow, which is a marvelous job for a women of 75.
2. she danced well, which I don't
3. Nick is tall, which I will never be.

##### consideration for choosing a relative pronoun.
1. relation of the relative clause to its antecedent: restrictive or non-
2. gender type of the antecedent: personal or non-
3. function of the relative pronoun as subject,object or complement.

##### relative pronoun we use in restrictive and non-
restrictive for personal antecedent: who and that; non-:that and which

relative adverbs are where, when and why

non-restrictive clasuse,personal antecedent: who,non-personal antecedent: which

##### double relative clause
is a type of multiple post-modification which realized by more than one relative clause modifying the same head word.

##### double relative clause and embedded realtive clause.
in double relative clause, there are two relative clauses: Mr Lee is the only dealer I know who offers fair prices.

in embedded relative clause, there is only one realtive clause which itself is embedded in a clasue: Mr Lee is the only dealer who I know offers fair prices.

##### adverbials
time adjuncts,palce adjuncts, manner adjuncts, purpose adjuncts,reason adjuncts,result adjuncts,condition adjuncts,concession adjuncts

##### adjuncts(修饰性状语), disjuncts(评注性状语), conjuncts(连接性状语)
modify the verb: drive slowly; convey a comment: Fortunately; connect a new sentence: however

##### How many types of time adjuncts do we have?
when-adjuncts, duration-,frequency-

##### time adjuncts co-occur
they take a fixed order: duration + frequency + when-adjuncts

##### process adjuncts
denote how an event takes place or an action is fulfilled.

I told him in person. (manner-adjuncts)

##### contingency adjuncts
denote some kind of cause-effect relation.

reson-, result-, purpose, concession- and condition

##### Both result- and purpose- can be introduced by
1. result- is after "so that" often

I came to the lecture early(,)so that I got a good seat.

2. purpose- after "so that" often contain a modal Auxiliary
I came to the lecture earyl so that(in order that) I could get a good seat.

##### will in if-clause
usually used in the non-predictive sense suggesting "willingness","intention"

##### style-disjuncts and conten-disjuncts
1. express speaker's attitude towards what is being said.
2. denote speaker's comment on the content.

##### three principles of concord and their relations
the grammatical principle: matches its subject both in persion and in number.

the notional principle: concerned with the subject-verb concord on the semantic basis.
 
the principle of proximity: denotes agreement of the verb with a closely preceding noun phrase in preference(优先) to agreement

##### use singular verb with a collective noun denoting inanimate objects
inanimate objects is considered as a single undivided body.

##### use singular verb or plural verb
singular: single undivided body

plural: collection of individuals

##### coordinated noun phrase as subject.
1） 当并列名词短语用作主语时，如果连词指的是不同的事物，则协调正常的语法原则适用。同样的情况通常也适用于连接项，这些连接项不存在，或者带有隐藏在缩写等中的协调器。

##### What are given information and new information 
new information is assumed to be unfamiliar to the receiver

##### What is the information focus
most important part of the new information the speaker tries to stress.
